Document the embedded Service LB for K3s (#2562)
rancher/docs: content/k3s/latest/en/networking/_index.md

weight: 35
---

> This page explains how CoreDNS, the Traefik Ingress controller, and the built-in service load balancer work with K3s.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page explains how CoreDNS, the Traefik Ingress controller, and Klipper service load balancer work within K3s.
```

> For information on CNI options, refer to the [Installation Network Options]({{<baseurl>}}/k3s/latest/en/installation/network-options/) page. Please reference that page for details on Flannel and the various flannel backend options or how to set up your own CNI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to the [Installation Network Options]({{<baseurl>}}/k3s/latest/en/installation/network-options/) page for details on Flannel configuration options and backend selection, or how to set up your own CNI.
```

If you don't install CoreDNS, you will need to install a cluster DNS provider yourself.

# Traefik Ingress Controller

[Traefik](https://traefik.io/) is a modern HTTP reverse proxy and load balancer made to deploy microservices with ease. It simplifies networking complexity while designing, deploying, and running applications.

Traefik is deployed by default when starting the server. For more information see [Auto Deploying Manifests]({{<baseurl>}}/k3s/latest/en/advanced/#auto-deploying-manifests). The default config file is found in `/var/lib/rancher/k3s/server/manifests/traefik.yaml` and any changes made to this file will automatically be deployed to Kubernetes in a manner similar to `kubectl apply`.

The Traefik ingress controller will use ports 80, 443, and 8080 on the host (i.e. these will not be usable for HostPort or NodePort).

Traefik can be configured by editing the `traefik.yaml` file. For more information, refer to the official [Traefik for Helm Configuration Parameters.](https://github.com/helm/charts/tree/master/stable/traefik#configuration)

To disable it, start each server with the `--disable traefik` option.

# Service Load Balancer

> Any service load balancer (LB) can be leveraged in your Kubernetes cluster. K3s provides a Service LB that uses available host ports.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any service load balancer (LB) can be leveraged in your Kubernetes cluster. K3s provides a load balancer known as Klipper that uses available host ports.
```
